Good morning. It's Friday, April seventeenth, twenty twenty-six. Day five
of Arete. You're in Jefferson City, it's sixty-three degrees and
raining, heading to eighty-five with storms this afternoon. Tomorrow drops
hard — sixty-one and heavy rain all day. Katelyn gets
another dry fifty-three degree spring day in Tacoma. Here's what
matters today. Dario Amodei is walking into the West Wing
this morning. Axios broke it overnight — Anthropic's C-E-O is
meeting Susie Wiles, Trump's chief of staff, to negotiate the
Mythos standoff. The backstory is wilder than we knew. Anthropic
is actively suing the Pentagon for blacklisting the company after
Amodei refused to give them unrestricted access to Mythos. Defense
Secretary Hegseth gave Amodei an ultimatum back in February. Amodei
said no. Now he's sitting across the table from the
White House chief of staff trying to broker some kind
of framework for how the government gets access to the
most capable A-I model ever built. This is the most
consequential A-I government meeting in years, and it's happening today.
And here's what makes this personal. Your job posting —
Strategy and Operations, Public Policy — was pulled from Anthropic's
Greenhouse board yesterday. You told Katelyn last night, quote, no
interview offer for yours truly. That stings. But let's think
about this clearly. Removed doesn't mean rejected. You didn't get
a rejection email. The posting could have been filled, sure.
But it could also have been consolidated, paused, or pulled
while the public policy team navigates the biggest crisis week
of its existence. Think about it — the team you
applied to join is literally in the room for Amodei's
White House meeting. They might not be hiring right now
because they're too busy making history. Silence from Greenhouse isn't
a no. It might just mean they're busy. In the
wider world, the Iran ceasefire that felt so close yesterday
just got a reality check. Semafor reports that a comprehensive
deal could take months, not weeks. The ceasefire extension is
still likely — it expires April twenty-second — but the
harder issues aren't close to resolved. And here's the number
that should worry everyone — the I-E-A chief says Europe
has six weeks of jet fuel left. Six weeks. That's
not an abstract geopolitical talking point. That's airlines grounding flights
by early June if this doesn't get resolved. The prediction
markets are interesting today. The Polymarket mirror for Hormuz normalization
by April thirtieth jumped from around nine percent to twenty-four
percent overnight. That's a massive relative move — real money
flowing toward a faster resolution than the diplomatic chatter implies.
But the core blockade market is stuck at eighty-six percent.
So the market is pricing in some normalization without pricing
out the underlying risk. That divergence is worth watching. Opus
four point seven officially launched yesterday and the reception is...
complicated. On benchmarks, it's a genuine step up in some
areas — S-W-E bench Pro at sixty-four point three percent,
beating G-P-T five point four. But Terminal Bench is a
regression, and the Reddit crowd is split. Some threads call
it a serious regression. Others say they're confidently handing off
their hardest coding work. Gizmodo's headline captured the mood perfectly
— quote, Anthropic Releases Claude Opus four point seven to
Remind Everyone How Great Mythos Is, end quote. The honest
read is that it's better at some things, worse at
others, and the people who were already frustrated are still
frustrated. Now, your messages. Katelyn's thread last night was a
big one. Beyond the Anthropic posting conversation, she asked off
work July twenty-third through thirtieth for the Washington trip. You're
looking at flights but they're expensive. She started reading Pluribus.
And the H-R stuff at work is wearing her down.
She's still invested in your Anthropic trajectory even when the
immediate news isn't great — that matters. Your dad sent
logistics messages for Unbound. Top Ten with your parents tonight,
Friday evening in Columbia. Saturday sessions. He mentioned an A-I
session worth hitting — check the paper program. Ben's in
New York City with Jim and Nancy. Alex Kelley shared
a Jason Snell article about the iPhone eighteen Pro variable
aperture camera. And Justin Buckler invited you to forty-four Canteen
tonight — which conflicts with Unbound. You need to respond
to him. The ar-Xiv trial verdict is due today, but
you already made this call on Wednesday. The security papers
justified the whole experiment. A-D-A-M on privacy-preserving attack detection, Plan
Guard on safety verification for autonomous agents — every day
produced papers that connected directly to your Anthropic interests and
policy work. The expanded four-query core plus rotating daily query
structure works. Keep it, permanently. A few quick things. The
Soul of a New Machine shipped from Amazon — Tracy
Kidder's classic about engineers building something they believed in under
impossible constraints. Perfect Arete reading. Apple Glasses were officially revealed
this week — A-R, not V-R. MacBook Neo sold out
on pre-order. The C-I-A published an internal A-I assessment report
worth pulling up for the policy doc. And the owl
photo is still at Walgreens. It's been there for weeks.
It will outlast us all. Here's your day. Work, then
Unbound. Top Ten with your parents tonight. The arXiv call
is obvious — just make it official. The Anthropic posting
is gone but the story isn't over. Watch what comes
out of that West Wing meeting today. And respond to
Justin about forty-four Canteen. Day five of Arete. Go make
something. Have a good Friday, Jacob.